Pittsburgh vs. Philadelphia Tourism 

Sunny Patel

May 2020



1.	Introduction
1.1	Background
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania also known as “the Steel City” is home to many prominent leaders in a variety of categories. Pittsburgh has one of the largest medical providers in University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC). A city that was built around bridges by the steel they produced started seeing a shift in the economy. During the 1980s, Pittsburgh faced the shift due to the collapse of the steel industry. Large steel corporations began decreasing production which inevitably led to closures. The fall of the steel industry left half of the nation’s steelworkers unemployed.

Pittsburgh was able to successfully transition from an economy dominated by manufacturing to a city focusing on banking, medicine, higher education and technology. Large tech corporations such as Uber, Google, and Duolingo have opened campuses in the city. Pittsburgh is rooted with rich history, beautiful scenery and a thriving economy.


1.2	Problem
Even though Pittsburgh has plenty of essentials and a variety of amenities, the city still sits behind Philadelphia in tourism. Metro cities like Pittsburgh tend to garner higher tourist rates such as St. Louis and Philadelphia. According to WorldAtlas, Philadelphia ranks number eight as the most visited city in the US with 42 million visitors. The data that focuses on Philadelphia and Pittsburgh will help provide insight as to why a traveler should choose Pittsburgh as a destination compared to Philadelphia.


1.3	Interest
Those that want to travel to cities in the eastern region of The United States. Others who are interested in the development of tourism in Pittsburgh.

2.	Data 
2.1	Data Sources
There are different metrics that can be used to analyze tourism trends in a city. These include employment, attraction sites including sports, academics, cost of travel and goods. Employment rankings for 2020 have already been figured, weighted, and ranked by WalletHub. These rankings have calculated weighted points in socio-economics and job market. Job market calculations involve metrics such as job opportunities, employment growth, monthly average starting salary among many other indicators. Attraction sites and sports datasets are from FourSquare attraction links and WalletHub’s ranking for best sport cities.  Education attainment in Allegheny County and Philadelphia County datasets are provided from United States Census Bureau. The data will be used to compare both cities and determine the city with the most valuable travel indicator. Philadelphia and Pittsburgh will be matched up in employment, attractions with sports, and education. 


